>>> PRESIDENT BIDEN SOUNDING OFF
ON THE WAR BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS IN A SWEEPING INTERVIEW
WITH "60 MINUTES."
HE TOUCHED ON BRINGING THE
AMERICAN HOSTAGES HOME AND
WHETHER U.S. TROOPS COULD BE
SENT INTO COMBAT.
ALSO TALK ABOUT THE HUMANITARIAN
CORRIDOR IN GAZA AND HIS MESSAGE
TO HEZBOLLAH.
>> WE'LL TO EVERYTHING IN OUR
POWER TO FIND THOSE WHO ARE
STILL ALIVE AND SET THEM FREE.
EVERYTHING IN OUR POWER.
AND I'M NOT GOING TO GO INTO
DETAIL OF THAT, BUT WE'RE
WORKING LIKE HELL ON IT.
>> CAN YOU FORESEE U.S. TROOPS
IN COMBAT IN THIS NEW MIDDLE
EAST WAR?
>> I DON'T THINK THAT IS
NECESSARY.
ISRAEL HAS ONE OF THE FINEST
FIGHTING FORCES IN THE COUNTRY.
I GUARANTEE WE'LL PROVIDE THEM
EVERYTHING THEY NEED.
>> YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE A
HUMANITARIAN CORRIDOR THAT
ALLOWS SOME OF THE 2 MILLION
GAZA STNS OUT OF THE AREA?
>> YES.
>> YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE
HUMANITARIAN SUPPLIES BROUGHT
INTO GAZA.
>> YES.
>> SO YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THE
ISRAELI TOTAL SIEGE OF THE GAZA
STRIP?
>> I'M CONFIDENT THAT ISRAEL
WILL ACT UNDER THE RULES OF WAR.
>> WOULD YOU SUPPORT ISRAELI
OCCUPATION OF GAZA AT THIS
POINT?
>> I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE A
BIG MISTAKE.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE HAMAS MUST BE
ELIMINATED ENTIRELY?
>> YES, I DO.
BUT THERE NEEDS TO BE A
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY, THERE
NEEDS TO BE A PATH TO A
PALESTINIAN STATE.
>> I WONDER WHAT IS YOUR MESSAGE
TO HEZBOLLAH AND ITS BACKER
IRAN.
>> DON'T.
DON'T, DON'T, DON'T.
>> DON'T COME ACROSS THE BORDER,
DON'T ESCALATE THE WAR.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> CHRISTIAN AMANPOUR IS LIVE IN
LONDON WITH MORE.
AND OBVIOUSLY THEY TRY TO DO
WITH WORDS EVERYTHING THEY CAN
TO AVOID A LARGER WAR.
BUT NONETHELESS BIDEN SAYING
THAT WHILE HAMAS MUST BE
ELIMINATED, REOCCUPYING GAZA
WOULD BE A MISTAKE.
HOW DO YOU READ BETWEEN THE
LINES HERE OF WHAT HE IS SAYING
BUT MOST IMPORTANT WHAT ISRAEL
AND ITS ENEMIES ARE HEARING?
>> THERE AREN'T ANY LINES TO
READ.
WE DON'T KNOW AND NOR DID THE
ISRAELIS OR AMERICANS KNOW WHAT
THE FINAL END GAME IS.
WHAT DO YOU DO IF YOU DESTROY
AND D
DEC
DECEMBER A MATE HAMAS.
WHAT IS THE FINAL END GAME.
WIDER WAR THAT THE UNITED STATES
IS TRYING TO HEAD OFFA MATE HAM.
WHAT IS THE FINAL END GAME.
WIDER WAR THAT THE UNITED STATES
IS TRYING TO HEAD OFF WITH THE
SHUTTLE DIPLOMACY, THAT IS ALSO
A REAL PROBLEM.
WHAT HAPPENS.
HE SAID DON'T WHEN ASKED ABOUT
HAMAS -- RATHER HEZBOLLAH AND
IRAN.
IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER MEETING
WITH HAMAS, HAVING BEEN ALSO TO
MEET WITH HEZBOLLAH, HAS
BASICALLY NOW SAID THAT IRAN
WILL NOT STAND IDLY BY IF THE
AIRSTRIKES AGAINST PALESTINIANS
CONTINUE.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
THE UNITED STATES -- ISRAEL
RATHER HAS ALREADY BOMBED AIR
STRIPS IN SYRIA IN DAMASCUS AND
ALLEPO AND THERE ARE CONSTANT
SKIRMISHES ACROSS THE BORDER.
ISRAEL HAS NOT SAID THAT IT SEES
A SMOKING GUN FROM IRAN.
CLEARLY NOBODY WANTS TO GET INTO
THAT KIND OF WAR.
AND THEN ON THE HUMANITARIAN
SIDE, THIS IS ALSO HUGELY
COMPLEX BECAUSE, YES, IT IS
CLOSED TO ALL INTENTS AND
PURPOSE, BUT I'VE BEEN SPEAKING
TO ARAB LEADERS WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT A, QUOTE, E
EXODUS, WHERE ARE ALL THESE
PALES
PALESTINIANS BEING PUSHED.
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO SEE
PALESTINIANS PUSHED PERMANENTLY
OUT OF GAZA AND THEN POTENTIALLY
NEVER BEING ALLOWED TO COME
BACK.
THEY ALSO DON'T WANT TO SEE THAT
AS A PRECEDENT, WHAT HAPPENS IF
CERTAIN ISRAELIS, THE RIGHT
WINGERS WHO HAVE ALWAYS THOUGHT
FOR INSTANCE JORDAN IS A
PALESTINIAN HOMELAND, THEY DON'T
WANT TO SEE THAT KIND OF PROCESS
HAPPENING IN THE WEST BANK.
SO THIS IS HUGELY COMPLICATED
RIGHT NOW AND NOT AS SIMPLE --
WELL, CLEARY NOT SIMPLE, BUT
JUST THE IDEA OF HUMANITARIAN
CORRIDORS IS ALSO VERY, VERY
COMPLEX.
>> AND TRY DEVOCAL CRITICISM OF
CIVILIAN SITUATION THIS GAZA
FROM THE KING OF JORDAN AND AS
WELL AS THE LEADER OF EGYPT
MAKING IT CLEAR HOW THEY FEEL
THERE.
BUT ANTONY BLINKEN JUST CAME
BACK HERE AND HE IS MEETING WITH
THE ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER.
NO ONE HAD EXPECTED HIM TO COME
BACK.
HE WAS HERE LAST WEEK AND IT WAS
ANNOUNCED LAST NIGHT THAT HE
WOULD RETURN.
THE QUESTION WAS WHAT IS HE
RETURNING FOR, WAS HE RETURNING
TO GET NETANYAHU TO PAUSE OR TO
CONSIDER OR PULL BACK OR IS HE
SIMPLY COMING TO ASSIST IN
NEGOTIATIONS OVER BORDER
CROSSINGS.
WE WILL HAVE A PRESS CONFERENCE
FROM THEM IN A FEW MOMENTS, BUT
DO YOU REALLY THINK IS HAPPENING
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS?
>> I THINK ALL OF THE ABOVE
FRANKLY.
THE UNITED STATES IS TRYING TO
KEEP IT FROM SPILLING OVER.
IT HAS TO SUPPORT ISRAEL'S RIGHT
TO SELF-DEFENSE, BUT IT WANTS TO
MAKE SURE IF IT IS AT ALL
POSSIBLE TO KEEP IT TO WITHIN
CERTAIN PARAMETERS.
ALSO, YOU KNOW, THE UNITED
STATES IS IMPLICATED, IT IS
INVOLVED BECAUSE 29 AT LEAST OF
ITS CITIZENS HAVE BEEN KILLED
AND THERE ARE APPARENTLY
POTENTIALLY ISRAELI AMERICAN
HOSTAGES.
SO THE U.S. IS ABSOLUTELY
INVOLVED.
BUT SOME PEOPLE ARE CAUTIONING,
YOU KNOW, THE U.S. WAS ASKED
WOULD THEY PUT BOOTS ON THE
GROUND AND BIDEN SAID DON'T
THINK IT IS NECESSARY.
THEY ARE SENDING STRIKE FORCES.
WHAT FOR, IS THAT FOR COVER,
WHAT IS IT FOR.
AND JUST GO BACK ALL THE WAY TO
1983 WHEN THE U.S. SENT WARSHIPS
OUTSIDE LEBANON AND IN SUPPORT
OF ISRAEL, WAS INVOLVED IN THAT
WAR AND IT HAD A TERRIBLE,
TERRIBLE BACKLASH AGAINST THE
UNITED STATES.
MASSIVE KILLINGS AT THE BARRACKS
IN BEIRUT AND ON AND ON AND ON.
IT WAS THE BEGINNING OF REALLY
SERIOUS ANTI-AMERICAN BACKLASH
IN THAT PART OF THE WORLD.
SO THAT HAS TO BE CONSIDERED AS
WELL.
>> AND ALSO THE HOSTAGES.
LAST NIGHT, HE DID POINT OUT IN
THE "60 MINUTES" INTERVIEW
SAYING NO NEED FOR U.S. TROOP ON
THE GROUND.
OF COURSE JOHN KIRBY HAD LEFT IT
ON THE TABLE THAT WHEN IT COMES
TO U.S. HOSTAGES, WE WON'T TAKE
ANYTHING OFF THE TABLE IF YOU
NEED U.S. MILITARY POWER
INVOLVED IN THAT.
NOT TAKING IT OFF THE TABLE IS
NOT SAYING THAT YOU ARE GOING TO
DO IT, BUT NONETHELESS THERE IS
STILL THAT UNCERTAINTY.
YOU HAVE AMERICANS BEING HELD
HOSTAGE AND THAT IS A WHOLE NEW
THING HERE.
>> IT IS.
AND AS I SAY, THOSE HOSTAGE
SITUATIONS, MOSTLY STARTED BACK
THERE IN LEBANON AFTER A
CERTAIN, YOU KNOW, AFTER WHAT I
TOLD YOU ABOUT.
THE THING IS, THE HOSTAGES
ACCORDING TO ISRAELI EXPERTS AND
FORMER HOSTAGE NEGOTIATORS AND
IDF PEOPLE, THEY WILL NOT BE
ABLE TO BE, YOU KNOW, RELEASED
OR FOUND WITHOUT A GROUND
INCURSION.
IT IS ONLY ON THE GROUND THAT
YOU CAN GET TO THOSE HOSTAGES.
YOU ALREADY HAD A DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE PARAMETERS ADDRESS
DA --
AND DANGERS OF THAT.
IF IT IS TRUE THAT SOME OF THOSE
HOSTAGES HAVE ALREADY BEEN
KILLED IN AIRSTRIKES, AND WE
HAVEN'T HAD CONFIRMATION, BUT
THAT IS WHAT HAMAS HAS SAID, IS
ISRAEL'S FIRST PRIORITY TO SAVE
THE HOSTAGES OR IS ITS FIRST --
AND I'M TALKING ABOUT IN A
GROUND INCURSION.
OR IS IT TO DECIMATE HAMAS.
THAT IS THE QUESTION THAT WE
WELL, CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.